what implodes people that they have the
talent maybe they even have the it
factor and they just they don't make it
there's a thing
it's three real pillars do you actually
have the talent
are you a star
a star is going to make it by hooker
crook
if they have to sell their last dirty
pair of underwear they're going to make
it
they're getting it no matter what no
matter how where do i got to go what do
i have to move who do i have to see what
do i got to do i'm getting it you ain't
going to stop me nobody's stopping me
stars have that ego
and that perseverance that's what it
really takes to make it
do you really have what it takes to go
through the and look
i say to people all the time one of the
things that helped me the most all the
no's and the rejections that i got
because it made me get back up and go
okay what i got to do
[Music]
hey everybody welcome to impact theory
today's guest is one of the most
accomplished music industry
professionals in history he has produced
for worked with and or helped shape the
music and careers of some of the most
legendary figures in the business
including michael jackson whitney
houston mariah carey aretha franklin
alicia keys elton john bruce springsteen
madonna and countless others he's also
an extraordinarily accomplished musician
who's played with such worldwide
phenomenons as journey herbie hancock
and the era defining icon bob dylan that
insane string of bona fides however was
just his warm-up the thing that took him
from being famous and well-respected in
the music industry to being a global
brand and household name was his 12 year
run as a judge on the ratings juggernaut
american idol showing the true depths of
his versatility his accomplishments
extend behind the camera as well and
even reached deeply into business he was
an executive producer on american idol
he helped mtv develop and produce their
own hit show america's best dance crew
and he even launched his own line of
eyewear which has continued to win in a
very competitive marketplace for over
half a dozen years
he's also an active philanthropist
who've served as a spokesperson for the
american heart association's heart of
diabetes campaign and he even founded
his own charity to help combat childhood
obesity
so please help me in welcoming the man
who went from playing music in local
clubs to becoming one of the most
influential creators of our time the big
dog himself randy jackson
what's up brother tom how you doing man
yeah that was quite an intro man dude
your life is crazy dude that was quite
an intro i love that i was sitting here
like talking about me or something like
that who is this guy this guy sounds
cool man looking at your bio it's nuts
like if you only know you from american
idol you really have only scratched the
surface of what you've done i mean
you've been at this game for a while man
well it's funny you say that because you
know idol was such a juggernaut because
it's on twice a week right
so and it in the height of the show was
seen by 60 million eyeballs a week
so
people would talk to you and they had no
idea they didn't even care what you did
before
they just only cared that you were on
their screen in their home twice a week
and they would talk to me like they knew
me yeah and i'd be somewhere they're
like yeah man but what are you guys
going to do with i was like what is this
man that is like that is those are crazy
numbers crazy numbers twice a week like
that really begins to shape people it's
super
fascinating and the interesting thing
for me because i've gotten to know you a
little bit personally is the when you
walk in you walk in as randy jackson and
then you really get to know you and
you're like well when i leave who do i
leave as as like a real dude but here's
what i find is super [__] interesting
man you talk a lot about this and this
is like the real thrust of today's
interview i think you talk a lot about
the it factor
you have that same thing like there's
something about you your ability to to
see talent for sure but also to be
engaging to like you're easy to be
around i don't know there's just there's
an it factor it's really [__]
fascinating to see and i wonder how much
of that is to see it like you have to
have a bit of it
well i think it's a bit that tom
honestly and i think look
the funny thing about me with idol about
this kind of a show
i was an a r guy kyle and i were enr
guys
so exactly what the show was about
that's what our livelihood that's what
we did for like 20 years
so we would find discover shape develop
talent
duh the show's about finding shaping
discovery and selling you know figuring
out how to make talent work
but for me it was even five-fold because
i was that kid before
i became the guy doing that i was the
kid in louisiana baton rouge trying to
make it
playing in bars i must have played a
million bars forever made four dollars
so i was that kid struggling trying to
figure out
how to make it how do i get people to
pay attention to me i remember we're on
a tour we're playing like holiday inns
and people would not even give us
any attention in the bar and we go like
okay so what do we got to do get people
even turn around and look at us and
notice that we're here
so all of that really helps to shape you
and helps to show you that okay wait a
minute i need to do something compelling
interesting and great for them to notice
me how do i get noticed
yeah it's really interesting one of the
most fascinating music industry stories
and you probably know a lot more about
this than i do but the beatles in the
german years
and it's like how you never hear about
that but it was like they were there for
like a year or 18 months or something
playing five shows a week i was like
that's that's an insane amount well cut
to that that's where first and sinking
backstreet broke
a band from america put together in
florida
that's why they broke first was in
germany so germany is a very interesting
marketplace it's it's like probably your
second largest market in europe wow
yeah which most people don't realize
what i like about the beatles story is
the the grind of just like clocking the
hours putting in the time you've talked
about the beatles really interestingly
saying hey look
they didn't blow up because they were
the cutest guys around they didn't blow
up because they were super charismatic
they they weren't even the best
musicians but hot damn did they write
good songs well that's the key i mean
you know i talk to people all the time
uh they're new artists out there every
day trying to make it trying to figure
it out they're people still on the
charts people say to me why didn't
so-and-so fall from grace what happened
to them
i guess they didn't have compelling
great songs so when you look at the the
beatles in motown probably two of the
most prolific
writing catalogs ever
in the history of recorded music i mean
what did the beatles have like 70 number
ones
i mean yeah this is unfathomable
so i mean most people are trying to have
one in their lifetime it's 70 and they
just keep coming keep coming so
that in itself is what keeps you there
i want to go back to baton rouge
you're 13 you're sneaking out of the
house
you're playing in local clubs
what is the price of greatness i have
the chills what's the price of greatness
man because what you've built in your
own life i'm no doubt i'm sure that some
percentage of it is you just have an eye
for talent you were born with it you can
hear it whatever but there's way more
than that and i want to know the way
more apart well the way more apart for
me then was you're kind of young dumb
and stupid right you have a desire you
have a passion you want to be in music
the only way to play music is for me
i wanted to learn from all the people
that were older than me and better than
me
because people my age were doing the
same thing i was doing so for me early
on it was about
who's the best in town who's doing this
where do people listen to music where do
they consume music how do they consume
the music
let me go to the bars in the churches
i want to see that spirit take hold take
shape
uh
and the bars were interesting for me
because
i wasn't supposed to be there
it's where all the older people played
and these people would you know the
eagle flies on friday they get their
check
and they got the money and so they live
in high that friday night spying drinks
oh partying my god so what was that
about so as a kid being able to have
that advantage
and you know the hood is very creative
so growing up in the hood is very
creative playing bars in the hood is
very creative i mean it's probably not
that many cops checking in
on the bar
in the hood to see
how old are the people in here you know
what i mean so
uh it was just and i didn't really know
any better i thought probably every kid
did that
but the fact that i was chosen to play
with the adults in the bar
i was like wow this is so cool how much
were you practicing at the time
i was practicing a lot at least a couple
hours a day but i was playing sports i
was in
bands in school i was playing in a
church band i mean i was you know i was
doing everything i could i was trying to
immerse myself in it
you were once asked like what's the
secret to success how do you end up
doing this and you said that people had
to learn everything they could they had
to show up at the right time knowing the
right things and they had to persevere
and stay humble
why is that the magic cocktail
because you're going to learn everything
you can even stuff you don't think you
need the average kid that goes to
college
is saying to me my own kids will say to
me
dad why am i learning this how i need
this
a kid just said to me recently i'm going
to berkeley school of music but i want
to be in a stone's band the stone's like
four chords man they're like a bluesy
rock man why am i in berkeley i said
listen you never know when you're going
to need that because you're now getting
high level information so
maybe you can't repeat the stones
because nothing repeats
but maybe with all the learning and all
the knowledge you're going to get you
can become a new version of the stone ah
so now you've built your own brand so
this is how you become unique and
different but you need that information
sometimes because you never know what an
idea is going to come from
so
a carpenter doesn't come to the house
with just one nail and one hammer
they come with a bunch of tools
so when you learn all of these tools you
bring these tools with you and you say
for this job you know what i'm going to
need
i may need a saw i know i'm a carpenter
but yeah
so that's what that's like it's like
apprenticeship it's like becoming the
best at what you say you're trying to do
so walk me through you're young you're
playing with the adults how do you
push that
ability how do you start like do you
think
all right this guy's the best and i'm
going to try to keep up with him did you
set insane challenges for yourself i
said this guy is the best i want to take
lessons from this guy i'm going to beg
him to see if he'll show me i'm a young
kid playing with all the older guys much
much older guys that are the best in
town i'm trying to keep up
i'm just happy that they're allowing me
in the room and they're also giving me
drops and fruits of wisdom along the way
you know
um
you know uh one of the greatest tidbits
was and i still use it every day today
one of these days
you're going to learn to want what you
need as opposed to need what you want
so that applies to everything in life
relationships music
i mean work jobs everything what do i
need
to survive what do i absolutely need
because the want changes every hour we
want pizza today tomorrow's pasta the
next week it's sushi next day it's like
we want onions with tomatoes i mean you
know like you're driving yourself crazy
with this one thing the average person
buys a car
and six months later i should have
gotten the blue one why would i get a
different color next time yeah i feel
the same i mean now in my life i feel
the same thing with houses you get a
house you go i don't know it's cool
maybe a couple years i mean
so that want is never quite satisfied
because it's a fleeting thought that's
going on in your head and you just you
know it's also attached to
sensationalism which is king and queen
of america there's 80 million ads
everywhere you turn and look turn on tv
radio whatever
so you got to be able to turn that noise
off
to get to what do i need
talk to me about that as a process how
do people actually do that especially
now as it's escalating it's getting
worse
and this is social media is the king of
it yeah it's everywhere it's telling you
who you should date who you should marry
it tells you everything you should do
tom needs to grow like this
so how do we turn it down
well i think you have to be able to turn
off the noise you have to be in a
quiet place and you just got to really
get into yourself one of my big things
in life now
people actually have no idea who they
are
so if you don't know who you are and i
mean i know people 80 years old that
don't know who they are i know some 80
year old boys
that still haven't turned the corner to
man so if you don't know who you are how
can you know how to navigate your life
so one of my other phrases in life that
i love now this is your mission tom
should you choose
you tom nobody else
you choose not your parents i didn't you
choose to accept it do you know who you
are and have you accepted that this is
who i am this is what i need
most people don't even think about that
i mean i see people getting married
early and doing all this stuff and i see
the relationships don't work i see the
music thing doesn't work because they
have no idea what they should be doing
i people would come into idle auditions
and they would rattle off well i do kind
of blues opera gospel
country with little bluegrass but r b
wow and we go wow
okay
great
sing for us and go of course
right you
you're not building a brand so
how do i find what my brand is and how
do i go about marketing
because so what you know as an a r
person or as a producer the great ones
do
they'll meet you time and ago
tom tells me he wants to sing r b do you
know what tom does best
tom's a polka singer
so i'm going to produce some poke on tom
like magic it happens because you have
to put the best foot forward you have to
find out what you do best because
everyone thinks they do everything right
well i could do this i could do that i
could do anything and then you get the
whole parental thing with most kids you
can be anything you want to be no you
can't
i want to be bill gates i'm not
i don't think i ever will be i want to
be him no bad
that's so interesting go go deeper in
that so what do you tell your kids like
legitimate dad can i be anything i want
find out what you're passionate about
and live it like there's no tomorrow
learn everything you can about study i
don't care what it is i don't care what
you want to do
but do the hell out of that
what is doing the hell out of it like
and this is learning everything you can
going to conferences listening to people
immersing yourself in
i want to be a nutritionist
immersing yourself in nutrition
go all the way in
yeah that that to me is when i look at
your life and i think back to the kid
who's
on the stoop in uh
in baton rouge listening to people play
drinking it in finding the people that
are good taking the lessons your whole
thing about humility and ego being the
like the big problem that really [__]
people up
it's really interesting and it begins to
put in my head this image of you as this
person who one has the clarity you know
what you want two you have the drive to
actually learn the things that you want
to learn and then three you consistency
man and tom i didn't always know
i mean i was a young dumb stupid kid but
i had a passion and a desire but i made
a promise to myself i'm going to find
out
and smart people do something very
interesting in life if you don't know
ask someone that knows
don't just ask somebody else that
probably doesn't know that your age and
whatever
ask somebody who knows find somebody
successful and say
how do you do it
really listen to them and take that in
because they're where you want to be
so playing with the older guys they were
where i wanted to be
so i was aspiring looking to them
it's like
what's the maya angelou quote be the
change you seek
i want change yeah well i don't want to
change
wait a minute what are we doing
so you can talk yourself and tell
yourself a bunch of things that's why
the kendrick thing was so poignant to
sit down be humble
the record was so amazing it's a great
record he's an unbelievable talent but
just him saying that
to a woke community in the hood and
elsewhere and further out
was just amazing
you know i mean i i think all the
knowledge is out there for people to
grasp and get
i don't think they go and get it
i think their ego catches up with them
they wake up and tell themselves i'm
incredible
are you really
compared to what ah
and most people are afraid of reality
and most people i feel live in this
movable reality well i'm standing over
here this is real over here no no no no
no what was real there is same here same
there same there
are you that good are you as good as you
think you are
so one of the things about music and
about the entertainment business
that i talk to people about is that
you're in a competition whether you
believe it or like it or not
and the competition is what's going to
make you greater
what i love about big cities la and new
york specifically
right
guess what
all the leaders are here
around the corner from here
max martin every producer writer
hit boy
mustard
everybody's here
trying to write it
i'm right around the corner from the
heat
well
it's going to force me to really try and
get it together and stay on it if i go
to the small pond
it's not going to push me i'm going to
be big in a small pond but it won't mean
anything i'm not in the soup so i would
say to people that when these shows went
idle to voice any of these shows
you've just got a ticket into the brass
circle
guess what kelly clarkson
you love mariah whitney
you just got into the circle battle them
out here we go
may the best one with the best song win
that's my friend how you achieve
greatness
you don't achieve greatness by saying
i'm out here on this island by myself
i'm great
and everybody's telling you oh you're
great are you really compared to what
when you came up with your quest bars
was it good compared to what yeah you
know what i'm saying yeah was because
you have to sit there on the shuffle all
the other bars so may the best one win
and whether people think they're in a
competition or not they are
so that alone is to drive you like mad i
want to be the best i don't want to just
be in the game i want to be the best
get all the lessons i mean
i don't i i don't understand
for me i didn't know any other way so i
guess i was kind of born with that sort
of
you know thing in my in my system and my
get up
i gotta strive for the top yeah i got to
strive for the top what am i doing
why am i in this if i just want to be in
the game what
what implodes people that they have the
talent maybe they even have the it
factor and they just they don't make it
there's a thing
it's three real pillars do you actually
have the talent
are you a star
and do you actually have the
perseverance everyone needs the song
whether you write it or somebody else
writes it doesn't matter are you a star
a star
there's no stopping them
a star is going to make it by hooker
crook
if they have to sell their last dirty
pair of underwear they're going to make
it
they're getting it no matter what no
matter how where do i gotta go what do i
have to move who do i have to see what
do i got to do i'm getting it you ain't
gonna stop me nobody's stopping me
stars have that ego
and that perseverance that's what it
really takes to make it
do you really have what it takes to go
through the and look
i say to people all the time one of the
things that helped me the most all the
no's and the rejections that i got
because it made me get back up and go
okay what i got to do
i got to play better i got to figure out
what are these notes what does so-and-so
do and who do they love
why are they loving them
when i decided i wanted to be a producer
i was working with a guy who became a
mentor of mine the great late great tom
dowd
who was part of the atlantic years that
had done all the ray charles records all
the aretha records
all of the rod stewart records scott was
a genius genius so he said to me
he said um
so you're a musician guy you went to
music school graduated what and i just
played a session for him with a band
called taxi from from england
and i was doing a session up in the bay
area where i was living
he says uh yeah you music school kid man
you played great man you're amazing so
what do you want to do you just want to
keep doing session you want to go on the
road what do you want to do
says um i said man i'd love to be a
producer man i've been writing some i
really want to be a producer he says ah
okay
i said well look man listen i admire you
you i mean all the records i mean
maggie may rod stewart i mean older
until you come back to me aretha oh my
god i'm just this guy with armored
urging these guys oh my god right all
the rachels i mean these guys are like
legendary right
i said well what's one thing you can
give me right away
that you think will help me
i think somebody for a second he says
you know what
pick up the billboard magazine i pick it
up
it's a musician kid right music school
right now
look at the top ten
no look at the top 30.
anything in there you like that you
think is great
i say
you know yeah this stuff is cool but
it's like it's not really you know
it's it's all all right you know it's
cool but i'm not really you know crazy
about much of it
he says that's what i thought you would
say
see the first rule for you
look at the top 20 or 30 or 10
figure out
why those songs are working
with the public
how do you get those things those traits
to work for your music
because you are in a competition and you
need to be on this chart
number one why do they love it and i
said i don't care what kind of music it
is
why is that working
and how can you apply that to yours
because
yours is not working yet
so
how are you going to get there
dude i love that so much and i said to
myself
i left it and i was like you know what
he's absolutely correct it's not whether
i like it or not people are buying it
people say to me all the time i was
listening to a bunch of music store and
somebody said to me yeah i like that new
katy perry song i don't like that other
song i don't like
so why don't you like it i don't know i
just don't like it
well okay cool so i immediately discount
them because they don't know what
they're doing or what's going on but
they have a valid opinion
but
you needed to resonate with people that
are gonna
download or stream it
[Music]
who am i to say that the public's wrong
you have to tell the story about playing
with journey on stage for the first time
or at least the first time in front of
the huge [__] crowd
we were at calaveras county
fairgrounds
and it was the first big gig we landed
by chopper
this is like you know it's like a dream
come true right
i think there were 75 000 people whoa um
there are a bunch of other bands on the
show foreigner lover boy i mean all
these great amazing bands that i grew up
loving
um
and
man it was just it was like it was like
the ultimate dream
you're like you know i remember
i still get chills thinking about it the
last song in the set
was faithfully i remember standing on
stage playing
and thinking to myself
wow
this is what it's really about
because
75 000 people
were singing every word
to that song
you hold the mic out highway run they
were all seeing all the lyrics and i was
standing there and there were tears i
get choked up still thinking about it
now tears running down my face because
i'm thinking
this is it
it's not money it's not fame it's the
true connection with the human spirit
this is what it's all about
whoa
music to sue the savage in us this takes
you back to the beginning of time the
beginning of music this is it
people loved it so much that they
learned every
word in every melody
now
you've made it
forget the money the product will forget
whatever
now
finding of true connection
75 000 people bro
and the audience is singing every lyric
that's the real true connection for an
artist
that is really it
the money all that goes and comes all
this kind of stuff the houses all that
all that stuff is cool
but that real connection
because you know somebody loved your
stuff so much
they're living on every word
wow
you could stand on stage and they're
singing it to you you don't even need to
sing
you go like
god
thank you jesus this is it
this is the holy mecca i mean you
literally just explained why i do what i
do like the
ability to connect like you said to
connect with the human spirit to tap
into something this that story is why i
love you so much like your approach
about get [__] good learn everything
you can
and the the public doesn't lie i think
is a direct quote from you
and i thought that's so interesting and
when you think about this notion of the
public doesn't lie and like what's the
organizing factor i want to be famous i
think and like i'm some upstart musician
i think i have it and i'm chasing
something and your whole message
is
your job is to get so good
that you can create something so
beautiful that it connects with that
many people at such a deep level that it
starts to become a part of the fabric of
who they are
and that's like god man we all have
those songs that are like they're a part
of us great music is timeless
the beatles timeless motown timeless
journey timeless that one timeless
this music from 50 years ago still
sounds fresh and new today
the other thing that what happens that i
think
prepares you when you learn everything
you can tom
you're able to start to concoct your own
brand
nobody wants another one of anything
else who are you
what are you giving me
that i don't get from somewhere else so
i say to every artist people say well
how you decide to manage people what do
you what do you do
see i meet artists and i go
why do i care
why will anyone care about you i'm great
okay
uh i can dance oh okay
i am beautiful oh there's none of that
in the planet oh okay great that's not
going to do it
what are you giving me that nobody else
has given me what's special about you
we each have something
spiritually god has given us all
something to get through this life
differently from the other that's better
than the other it's up to you to find it
how
exactly you got to do a lot of
self-exploration you got to do a lot of
digging
soul searching and try and find it and i
think you have to do a lot of listening
and being able to turn the noise down
social media and otherwise
all of the sensationalism that it just
begets america turn it off
just try and dig deep and find out what
makes you special also
what makes you happy
maybe start there
what kind of song when you sing that you
go i would say to singers this trick you
have one song left to sing what would
you sing
one
for the rest of your life what is that
song that rocks you at your core
if you don't know what that is you don't
know who you are ah
so what are we talking about we're just
we're just wasting time because until
you know who you are we should not move
forward
so remember
i got to learn to want what i need
as opposed to need what i want
what do i need i don't know if i don't
know who i am
i don't even know what i like if i don't
you can tell yourself i like this i like
that oh i like 20 things yeah
there's something
there's one thing in there that you
cannot live without what is that
what i like about your advice is that it
applies to anything
because everything in life is relative
it's life
yeah when i think about
even like as i was describing the
you know having that connection and
getting so good at something that you
can really have a deep connection i
thought there is a correlate to this in
accounting where it's like you and i
love that seth godin calls what he calls
linchpins somebody who's just so
extraordinary at their job he said i
think of them as artists right and i'm
like yes like when you tell people that
they need to learn everything they can
and you know i just want to be you know
the next zeppelin or whatever the stones
and so do i really need to learn more
than these four chords yes [__]
because if you want to discover who you
are you've got to have access to
everything so that your creation isn't
limited by your ability to articulate
that's why people usually write the same
song over and over
they don't know anything else
yeah i think the the notion of all of
this is born out of
knowing what you want knowing who you
are and then most importantly building
the skills to be able to
get that out knowing what you need
and knowing who you are
because what you want
is often i'm saying
uh i don't think you're ever going to
meet a music person that i want to be
famous
uh and people now today you know what
the
the whole millennial gen z thing is i
want to be famous now yeah uh somebody
said to me that i want to be signed in
three months great just don't don't wait
just sign the day
just go to a label and say sign me now
and see what happens yeah
um
but you know even thinking about that
they're signing you on what basis what
do you have to show what's your
collateral it's a bank
what do you have to show me well i got a
bunch of songs
i suddenly you know people walk in my
office i got 10 000 songs i go great i
got 10 billion so you know you haven't
heard any of them they're all crap
i mean like you know if we all write
crap
we write good stuff we write crap stuff
we're all a work in progress
i mean if you do if if i had had these
songs and all of them would have been
hits we'd probably gonna be sitting in
this office
you know so it's it's um
and it's also getting honest and real
with yourself digging deep
how good am i really let me look in the
mirror i know i'm hot
but am i really that cute
yeah i just really being honest with
yourself
but the stars my friend
they are the equalizers so when i was
doing enr i only look for stars today
people say well why is rock music not
prevalent and why is r b not prevalent
they're no stars the stars that they are
in hip-hop
because these are guys that give them
zero [__]
kanye doesn't care what anyone thinks
but kanye
that's the mark of a star do you think
mick jagger cared what people were
saying about him
hell no this is what i'm doing
you think bowie cared
no you think prince care
oh my god i'm going to wear this
g-string with these higher boots with
the fishnets and this cross and i'm
going to rock it on
yeah i know what they must be saying i
don't care
you had a really awesome quote you were
talking about these people that want to
be stars but they don't even love
themselves and you were like meghan
trainor adele
reuben stuttered people that
the outside world was like you you're
too big for this like no way colin i
would say to people that would come in
on idol
and somebody go like
well i really gotta lose weight no no no
no no
don't let that become you don't let that
shackle you in a weird place
a star is not about the weight meat loaf
was heavy it was a star you see what i'm
saying
so
it's
it's less about how you look and it's
what do they say that said hutzpah said
janae said quoi it's that special
something sauce that you got
yeah hey man you know we know people
that can sell sand to the beach
that's a star
beach already's got enough sand i got
some more sand it's blue well we don't
have blue let me take some
yeah these are the stars
because as an artist what you're out
there doing is selling your wares aren't
you
[Music]
so people think i'm on instagram and
i've taken everything off
i mean i used to be on two i had a 100
million followers because i was just
posing in my speedo
and guys these are speedos that tom made
for me
tom before anything else was a speedo
maker
the best of the best loud orange and
electric green
but no i mean listen
that'll only get you so far that'll get
you people wanting your body
this does nothing for your talent
it doesn't mean anything doesn't
translate into sales or anything else
just translating people wanting you get
your clothes off yeah i got 10 million
followers yay
give people the breakdown between a pop
star
and like a just raw unadulterated
star performer the best star in the
world is the star that has commerce
that's what i like
meaning that you're a star you give zero
fox you do what you beat by your own
drum
you look to be unique
you
don't care what people are thinking
and you strive to be the best
and you persevere you never give up
that's a real star
and if that star is commerce then it's
all the better so when you look at the
legendary people of our time
the marlies the jacksons the princes the
boys the jaggers
the steven tylers the axel roses i mean
just zeppelin hendrix just go down i
mean there's trillions of them the
beatles motown james brown just just
keep going
whatever the eagles just whatever
these are these artists
that also have commerce
now
there are a lot of pop stars around
today
and it always has been since the
beginning of time
the pop star
somebody tells where to stand
what color to wear
what to do it's almost programmed almost
as if it's a robot
successful
because
success is really more about the song
but a career
is about the song and the artist
the longevity is about the artist
anybody listen everybody in this room
will find a song and put it out under
any kind of name the troubles
and he could maybe become a head if the
song is great
because the public doesn't really care
who's doing it
they just care about the song
[Music]
but
the real public cares about the song and
the person
hence you two doesn't have to put out
another record they could play stadiums
wow
and their career has been going 25 years
and counting
that's a career
that's a real star with commerce
so
you know you can become a pop star and
you're just programmed to death but
that's only going to lead you so far
yeah one thing i heard you say one time
and i thought it was so on the money and
it was so revealing and it like was one
of those i'd never thought of it before
and then as soon as you said it i was
like oh my god
is that the
the star
is somebody who
can reveal the depths of their emotions
like they're not the robot they are
they're almost
peeling themselves bare before you in
their performance and so there's that
that connection that you talked about
earlier as a singer as a musician on a
stage
you could be wearing 18 bear rugs you're
nude the public is picking you apart to
shreds his eyes are too close together
her knees she's knock kneed she's goofy
and tall her teeth are crooked i mean i
don't like his ears they're too big for
his body i mean they're ripping you
to literal shreds so you better
have some stamina and you better be able
to take the heat or get out the kitchen
because they're coming for you
guns blazing as hard as they can
i don't like him i don't know what
something's weird about this he's got a
colic hair i don't know his nose is
weird i know he said five nose jobs and
he needs another one whatever they hate
you before they're gonna love you
the pop star
can't take that
the artists
can take that because you know what
they're doing
they're saying you know what
i'm gonna sing my song
you're gonna listen you could hate me
i'm not going away
i'm going to pour my lyrics out i'm
going to pour my heart out
i don't care what you see
take all of me or nothing
that's the artist
how's your career lasted so long
i think you know i try and reinvent all
the time i keep my mind open and my eyes
open
and i got became more of a
philanthropist
i got into
managing chefs i got into managing
writer producers and artists
i got into
um doing more tv developing tv shows
developing film
got into selling products on my own with
other people i became interested in
other things because when you're an
artist
ah
the great artist tony bennett
one of the real greats who's still to
this day at 90 whatever years old he is
while out seeing almost every pop star
on the planet he still gets up into his
two and a half hours singing at the top
of his lungs
brilliant everyone should always go and
see him
he's also a magnificent painter
so when you're an artist
art is not limited to one thing usually
that may be the thing you're best at
but there's other interests
you know so i think it's about
furthering that and i grew up really
loving
evolution of the man
what do you mean i did that
now i'm going to be like tom tom what do
you want to do next
did that conquer that did what i wanted
to do and that what's my next challenge
how do you stay hungry enough to pursue
that something new is so difficult it's
always difficult but that's what drives
you right
that's what drives
i love building so if you were going to
ask me what my real sort of secret
passion is building is the core of it
yeah
but if i were going to answer a question
around drive i'd probably give you a
different answer what would you say
in truth
i have built a value system
and part of that value system is impact
so i have decided
that it is important
to
have positive impact in the world and
i've built that up with such importance
and fervor in my mind that when we
exited quest my wife and i
we just never needed to work again
absurdly right by an island like that
kind of never needed to work again
and
that wasn't like even a real
consideration it was what do i know
about myself you talk about know thyself
i know for me whether this is good or
bad is somewhat irrelevant i it is
critical to me to matter i don't need to
be famous i don't need to be visible i
need to be doing something that matters
that is so crushingly important to me
that it borders on pathological
well i think that's the same thing for
all of us right and for me also it's
also paying it forward
it's seeing the diamond and rough and
going
that nobody's seeing it that could be
amazing
but that's what i say to every artist
are you willing to listen or do you know
everything already if you know
everything already good luck um
hopefully you have a good life
if you're willing to listen and do the
work
possibly i can help you
[Music]
you have to be open
and humble
still very compassionate
but being able to
grow
nobody's born with the whole thing
a ton of people helped me along the way
i'm sure a ton of people help you along
the way
so now you're doing that through your
impact theory i'm doing it through
everything that i do
it's it's what we do
it's like not working is not an option
it's what i do it's what i love
i love learning
i love exploring i love teaching it's
what i do why are you so focused on
helping kids
uh because i think they have no real
barrier of entry
when you're adult you have a bunch of
options you're an adult you can work
various jobs you can do a ton of things
you can move cities whatever kids don't
have that option they have their parents
that love them they want to see them do
well but
they don't really know the business
usually so
you need to you know somebody needs to
help
so it's one of those things
as i say a lot of people helped me man
they didn't have to
they saw something in me i'm not even
sure at the time i saw it myself
but the fact that they could see it i
mean look playing in those bars with the
older guys what in the hell i do
i'm like what did what was i doing in
here man like
i don't even know man i don't know what
that was you know what i'm saying like
i mean you feel me like i mean what am i
i'm like 13 these guys are like 40 some
they're great like
i mean i thought it was pretty good
but i didn't know you know
um
but yeah i mean
but seeing how they connected with the
music and just
sitting there first hand with them was
just so golden
seeing how people would get up and dance
out of music makes a move and
you feel like an example to me of when
somebody really finds what they want to
do what makes them come alive
and they just went all in and that's
like my real secret hope for people is
that they can create that in their life
that they can build into their life
something that they love the way that
you love music
but i love that your message always
comes back to learning hard work
perseverance get after it it's not like
oh i was born with this and that was
that
not enough
it's not enough and you're in a
competition whether you want to believe
it or not you are
you're being judged
people judge you we say as an artist is
climbing to the top everyone's cheering
him along like it's the rocky story the
butcher's gonna beat the champ yeah yeah
yeah go go go
once you get to the top oh yeah he sucks
i'm over him you know what i mean that's
when you know you've made it yeah
they've fallen off dude they're not even
with it anymore man
you know
yes
it's kind of funny i have to ask what's
the one song if you could only ever play
one song again what would it be
for me yeah
what's the one song
funnily enough
one of my favorite songs in life
i have about four or five favorites
because letter b just popped in my head
that's one of my favorites too but
pure imagination when will he walk in
the chocolate factory whoa
the melody and the chords just so
next
level
the
the theory of it
and the joy and the happiness that it
brings though
pure imagination
the melody so so every time i hear it it
makes me feel happy i love that yeah
it's just an amazing
piece of music
on the me i mean
i you'd have to those guys are so
accomplished even write that and make it
work
it's just
i mean beautiful just beautiful just
gorgeous
your world is beyond interesting to me
tell these people where they can dive
into your world where's the best place
to follow you
to dive into my world
you can connect with me on my socials
and everywhere you see me i'm there
everywhere i try and fly under the radar
a lot lately
but
tom's making me come back out
watch impact hearing you can find me
that's good advice
all right
what is the impact that you want to have
on the world
i want to help be the change
i want to help push people to their
greater highest good
i respect it
randy jackson thank you so much brother
and that was absolutely thank you
brother
do yourselves a favor dive into his
world see the way that he responds to
music the way that it moves him the way
that it is him you want to build
something like that into your life it
will change you forever go hard yo go
hard or go home if you haven't already
be sure to subscribe and until next time
my friends be legendary take care
randy you [__] that was awesome
dudes thank you so much
definition of success too often is
whoever has the most toys wins whoever
is the most popping wins whoever has the
most likes on instagram wins and i think
we have to change our definition of
success for me success is doing what you
love for a living